# 2. Write

[How to write a video script for YouTube (epidemicsound.com)](https://www.epidemicsound.com/blog/how-to-write-a-video-script-for-youtube/)

## Script

### Intro

#### Short history

> Developed by Konami and published by Sega, Frogger was released back in 1981 to the arcades.
> It was revolutionising at that time, and became one of the most iconic and greatest games ever made.

#### 20 games challenge

> I'm part of a challenge named "The 20 games challenge", in which you recreate 20 existing games.
> In this video, I'll show you how I remade Frogger in Godot.

### Game project and player

> After creating and setting up the project, I made a main scene with 4 world boundaries, one for each side.
> Then I drew the frog sprites, created the Frog scene, and started to code the movement logic.
> For that, I practiced using tweens to animate the frog jumping.
> It was pretty fun! I'll try to use them more in future projects.
> And now I had a good starting point. Pretty fun already, just jumping around!

### Level

> Time to open Aseprite, to work on the level entities.
> I made a car, log, turtle, and the different ground tiles like road, water and grass.
> After importing them to Godot, I made a main tileset using the new tiles, which I used to "draw" the level.

### Obstacles

> The first obstacle I implemented was the log.
> I made 3 types: short, medium, and long; one separate scene for each type.
> I then reused the Spawner & Spawnable components from previous games to spawn logs in 5 rows.
> I tried doing the same for the cars and turtles, and after a bit of adjustments to the level I had 6 rows of cars and 2 rows of turtles.
> Lastly, I made the frog actually die and respawn when ending up in the water, and making the logs into platforms the frog can sit on.

### Win condition

> Now, how do you win?
> In the original there were 5 "lily-pads", or spaces at the top of the level.
> When a frog reaches a lily-pad, it gets occupied and you get another frog to play as.
> When all 5 lily-pads are filled, you win!
> So first I made it possible to occupy the lily-pad spaces, and spawning a new frog when you did.
> Secondly I added the win state when all 5 lily-pads are occupied.
> I also fixed some small things, like some cars going in reverse? Silly cars.

### UI, health & score

> Now, how do you lose?
> Depending on the machine's settings back in the days you had either 3, 5 or 7 frogs.
> If all of them died, you lost.
> I wanted to make the logic a bit simpler, so I always allowed 5 frogs, and regardless if you successfully reached the lily-pad or died along the way, 1 frog was subtracted from the total frogs.
> And when you had no more frogs, the game was over, which also save your score if you had the highest score.
> To visualize this, I created a simple UI with a timer, score, high-score, and the amount of frogs.
> And of course you could also restart the game to improve your score.

### Final touches

> For the final touches I increased the max score from one-thousand to ten-thousand, I transformed the game-over screen to a start menu, and I implemented a way of playing the game on touchscreen devices.
> There are better ways to do this, but I'll come back to it sometime.
> The game also got some sound effects, as well as some music.
> I also added a theme and a font.
> And all that was left was a splash screen and a game icon.

### Rebranding

> As I talked about in my last video I did do some changes after I first published the game to rebrand it in order to stay away from copyright claims.
> But since I already made custom assets, I only changed the name of the game to Froggie, and republished it.
> Hehe, hope that's enough!

### Outro

> And with that it was done.
> The game is playable on Itch, and the source code can be found on GitHub.
> Both links are in the description below.
> I hope to see you soon when I recreate one of the first games ever made: Spacewar!
> Bye!

## Shots

| **Description** | **Type** | **Script text or section** |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Some footage of the original game | Screenrecording | Intro |
| Footage of the making of the recreation | Screenrecording | Most of the video |
| Footage of the finished prototype | Screenrecordings | Outro |
