# 2. Write

[How to write a video script for YouTube (epidemicsound.com)](https://www.epidemicsound.com/blog/how-to-write-a-video-script-for-youtube/)

## Script

### Intro

#### Short history

> Do you recognize this guy?
> You're not alone.
> Since its release back in 1978, Space Invaders took the arcades, and then the world, by storm.
> Today, it's considered one of the most influential and greatest video games of all time.

#### The 20 games challenge

> I'm part of a challenge named "The 20 games challenge", in which you recreate 20 existing games.  
> In this video, I'll show you how I remade Space Invaders in Godot.  

### Planning

> For the last 2 games, I started the projects by filling in a GDD.
>
> GDDs are great, but recently I learned more about rapid prototyping.
>
> I learned that for early prototyping it's best to not define the game too quickly.
> And I realized that I could get a lot more done faster when I:
>
> 1. Implement
> 2. Test
> 3. Tweak
> 4. Repeat
>
> Doing all the research before-hand was also just too time consuming.
> So the only prep I did was creating small GH issues, with the instructions from the 20 Games Challenge page.

### Core game components

#### Main level and ship

> After creating the project and setting it up, I made a main dark scene with 4 invisible walls.
>
> Then I started to build the player ship.
> I used a spritesheet I found online with all the sprites I needed for the game.
> And you could control the ship using a mouse or a finger on touchscreen devices.

#### Aliens

> In the original there were 3 types of aliens: Octopus, Crab, and Squid
>
> To spawn them I made a script called AlienRow, which were responsible for 1 row of aliens.
> I also made small, reusable components, like a spawnable and a spawner, to handle spawning and despawning.
>
> When the game starts it will spawn 5 rows, with 11 aliens on each row, just like the original.
> They will start moving right, and change direction when they collide with a wall, moving one step closer to the player each time.

#### Shooting

> To shoot the aliens I made a few reusable components like destructors, destructables, projectiles and a projectile pool.
> So the aliens have a destructable component, so that when a destructor enters it, it will deal damage and destroy the destructable.
> The projectiles contains the destructor component.
> And when the player shoots, the projectile is added to the projectile pool to be reused later.
>
> Doing this makes it easy to do the same but in reverse: having the aliens shoot back.
>
> When a destructable is destroyed, it sends a signal that is being acted on differently depending on the game object.
> Aliens despawns and wait until they are respawned again.
> The player disapear and reapear after a few seconds if there's any lives left.

### UFO

> Based on a random timer, a red UFO should appear and cross the screen above the aliens.
> When shot, the player is rewarded some bonus points.
>
> I'll add the points later, but having all these components I made earlier made the UFO quite easy to make.
> Just like the aliens, the UFO has a spawnable and a destructable component.
> And I made a super small custom spawner extending the existing spawner component.
>
> So pretty quickly I had a bonus UFO appearing randomly.
> And I also increased the speed of the aliens everytime you shot one.

### UI, health, and score

> The game had most of the features implemented, and now it needed some UI.
> I added a score, highscore, and life counter.
> If the player dies, a restart button appears.
> And if the player clears the screen, it resets after a few seconds.
>
> The player also lose instantly if the aliens reach the player ship.

### Final touches

> Time to finalize the game.
> First off I wanted to add a main menu, and I fixed some bugs I've made along the way.
>
> Then I added all the missing SFX and the game music.
>
> And lastly I added an icon, a splash screen, and exported the game.

### Outro

> And now the game was done!

INTERUPTION FROM FUTURE ME

> Hey, hi! Future me here.
> I was actually not done with the game here, and the same goes for all previous games I've made.
> In fact, right now you can see on my Itch page that I've made a bunch more games and they all have been reworked after I called them done.
> So, why?
> Well, the short answer: copyright.
>
> In order to still have all these games public, I decided to replace all copyrighted materials and names.
> For some, like this one, it was minor things like modifying the assets and change the name.
> For others, like Jetpack Joyride, it was a major rework.
> So I just wanted to add that explaination at the end here.
>
> But as always, you can play the game on Itch, and the source code can be found on GitHub.  
> Both are linked in the description.
>
> Thanks for watching and I hope to see you next time.
>
> Bye!  

## Shots

| **Description** | **Type** | **Script text or section** |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Some footage of the original game | Screenrecording | Intro |
| Footage of the making of the recreation | Screenrecording | Most of the video |
| "Cassette" interuption and footage of future modifications | Screenrecordings | Outro |
