# 2. Write

[How to write a video script for YouTube (epidemicsound.com)](https://www.epidemicsound.com/blog/how-to-write-a-video-script-for-youtube/)

## Brief

> I recreated Jetpack Joyride in Godot, and this is how I made it.  

## The Hook

Introduce what Jetpack Joyride is, how it fits into the 20 games challenge, and show step by step how I made it in Godot.

It should be simple and clean, straight to the point.

It should serve as just chill entertainment but also as a low-key tutorial.

## The Script

### Intro

#### Short history

> Jetpack Joyride is a side-scrolling, endless runner, action game, released by Halfbrick Studios 2011.  
> Just like many games from this studio, it was a massive hit and is still popular today.  

#### The 20 games challenge

> I'm part of a challenge named "The 20 games challenge", in which you recreate 20 existing games.  
> In this video, I'll show you how I made Jetpack Joyride in Godot.  

### Research and planning

> The first thing I did was to collect everything I learned about the game in a GDD, or a Game Design Document.  
>
> With that, I created all the tasks I needed to do in the form of GitHub issues and organized everything in a new GitHub project.
>
> I must admit that I had way too high ambitions when I first planned this out, and because of that the game took longer than it needed to.
>
> But yeah, I learned my lesson and will keep things simpler from now on.  

### A scrolling level

> My first goal was to make a scrolling level.
>
> I played around with the resolution of the project while drawing the background pieces.  
> I then had it stay stationary until you tapped the screen, and then it started scrolling.
>
> Easy enough.
>
> The hardest part was to stitch the parallax layers together, but I got it to work eventually.  

### The player

#### Recreate the sprites

> Next: the player.
>
> I found some blurry sprites I could use when I tried redrawing the character sprites.  
> I kept it simple and just made the running and flying animations.  

#### Collisions and flying

> I added some collisions and made him fly whenever you tapped the screen.
>
> The particles are super simple, but I'm not an expert with particles, and I didn't want to stay here too long, so it was good enough.  

### Challenge

#### Make the first obstacle: zapper

> The first obstacle I added was the zapper.  
> This too was super simple, with no animations or particles.  

#### Create the first iteration of an interval spawning system

> I then made a first attempt in creating an interval spawning system for all obstacles, which I iterated on several times during the development.  

#### Make the speed increase over time

> As in the original, I made the speed increase over time.  

#### Add losing state

> I then made you lose if you hit an obstacle.  
> Then the end screen appears, from which you can restart.  

### Distance/score

#### Calculate the distance

> As with all endless runners, you need to know how far you got.  
> So now it was time to add the distance meter.  

#### Save system

> While implementing that, I also needed to implement a save system to be able to save the score, among other things.  

#### Highscore

> I then made the game save your score if you reached the top 10.  
> The end screen was modified to display this.  

### Add coins

> Time for some coins!
>
> First, I recreated the sprites, made them collectible by the player, and added the UI to display the collected coins.
>
> They are, of course, also saved between sessions, and in the future, it would be cool to add power-ups that you could buy with the coins.  
> But yeah, a bit out of scope at the moment.  

### Pause menu

> The next thing to add was the pause menu.  
> Simple, but yeah, now you can pause the game!  

### Some polish

#### Add more obstacles/improve the spawning system

> After this, the game had more or less all the essentials, so what's left was more variation and polish.
>
> First, I added the missile to the game.  
> And once again, I re-iterated the spawning system to make it work.  

#### Add audio

> When I started to add the audio, I found a pack with all the original SFX from the game.  
> Since this project took so long, I felt that I'd just go with that and started to add in the audio to the game using that pack.  
> I also shamefully used the original soundtracks as well.  

#### Final touches

> Finally, I added a title to the start screen, a splash screen, and a game icon.
>
> Again, I shamefully used the original splash screen and icon.  
> But yeah, this is just a bad clone for learning and nothing serious.  
> (Sorry, Halfbrick!)  

### Outro

> And with that, it was done!  
> Or at least playable.
>
> You can play the game on Itch, the source code can be found on GitHub.  
> Both are linked in the description.
>
> Thanks for watching and I hope to see you next time.
>
> Bye!  
